{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Series and paralel connections\
\
In electrical engineering and circuit design, the physical structural organization of components within a network is fundamentally categorized into two primary topological configurations: Series Connections and Parallel Connections. These two arrangement methods form the basis of all linear networks, directly dictating how fundamental electrical parameters\'97specifically voltage potential drops, electron current flow rates, and equivalent circuit impedances\'97are distributed and altered across a system.A Series Connection is defined by an end-to-end sequential cascading arrangement of electrical components, establishing a single, solitary conductive loop for charge carriers. Within a series topology, the current passing through each individual component remains perfectly identical across all points, while the total voltage supplied by the input source is divided among the active components proportional to their internal impedances. Consequently, the total equivalent resistance steps up linearly with each added component, acting as a direct sum of the individual values. A critical limitation of this configuration is its lack of fault isolation; an electrical failure or open-circuit condition in any single component instantly halts current flow throughout the entire loop.\
\
Conversely, a Parallel Connection coordinates components side-by-side across the exact same electrical nodes, creating multiple independent branching paths. In a parallel topology, the voltage drop across every single branch remains perfectly constant and equal to the total node potential, whereas the total system current splits into fractions determined by the conductivity of each specific branch. Because activating additional parallel paths provides more concurrent channels for electron flow, the overall equivalent resistance of a parallel network decreases inversely, always dropping below the value of the smallest individual resistor. This configuration provides high fault tolerance, ensuring that if one branch fails, the remaining parallel pathways maintain secure connections to the primary voltage nodes and continue to operate completely uninterrupted, making it the universal standard for residential power distribution and industrial grid systems.}