{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Electronic amplifiers\
\
An electronic amplifier is an active, multi-stage electronic network designed to elevate the magnitude of a time-varying electrical signal\'97specifically its voltage, current, or overall power\'97by drawing energy from an external direct current (DC) power supply. Instead of physically altering the original input energy, an amplifier acts as an electronically controlled valve; it modulates the heavy energy flow from its primary power supply rails to reconstruct a significantly larger, higher-powered replica of the weak input waveform at its output. It stands as the cornerstone component across all analog processing architectures, telecommunications broadcasting, and sensory data acquisition systems.The functional design of an electronic amplifier is fundamentally divided into an input conditioning stage, a primary differential voltage gain stage, and a robust power output stage. To achieve predictable control and eliminate unwanted harmonic generation, modern amplifiers heavily rely on a Closed-Loop Negative Feedback network. By feeding back a controlled fraction of the output signal out-of-phase into the input terminal, the circuit actively minimizes internal nonlinearities, stabilizes the systemic gain parameter ($A_v$), and drastically expands the operational frequency bandwidth of the network.To balance the competing engineering trade-offs of signal linearity versus energetic efficiency, amplifiers are classified into distinct topologies known as Amplifier Classes. High-fidelity architectures, such as Class A, maintain continuous transistor conduction across the full $360^\\circ$ cycle of the input wave to provide maximum signal purity at the cost of high parasitic heat dissipation (\uc0\u304 stilik). Conversely, high-efficiency topologies like Class D utilize a non-linear switching strategy. By converting the input wave into a high-frequency Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) digital stream, Class D systems force their output transistors to operate strictly as binary switches, achieving efficiency ratings exceeding 90% while minimizing static thermal loss before passing the signal through a low-pass LC smoothing filter.}